Objective: Discovering the relation between members and casulas usage of bikes. While the company is seeing that members are more profitable and they want to study the
           performance in order to have more memberships from casuals.

Analysis: 1- Calculating the duration of each trip by subtracting the end time from the start time
          2- Extracting the weekday and the month that the biker rented the bike in.
          3- Droping the start station and its id with the end station and its id after discovering that they have more than 15% of null values which make around
             more than 1 million missing values. Also not knowing much about these stations and how they are located and what strategic importance they have made me taking
             this decision to delete them. I think the ride duration will be good for my analysis.
             
Some fast calculations:
The average value of the ride length in hours is: 0.329 
The maximum ride length in hours is: 678.417 (interesting)
The most day bikes are rented is: Saturday (which is understanble- weekdend)

This is how many times casuals and members rented bikes: 2.46 M for casuals and 3.41 M for members

There are much more calculations per month and per weekday am not able to upload pics in here. I don't know why but you'll find all these once you run the code!!

Data source: through this link --> https://divvy-tripdata.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html 
Disclaimer: I downloaded from Sept of 2019 till the latest month given which is Aug 2020 (making it a full year)


Click on this link to find the visualization report on Power BI

Analysis and Visualizations:
1- All over this analyzed year the ride counts are pretty similar b/w casual and members. However, all over the year every month members are using bikes mor than casuals
  with a range between 70 to 120 k per month.
2- Interesting fact shows that the high usage of these bikes are in the summer from June till September and probably this is because of weather conditions and summer time
  is the most enjoyable time
  
3- As discussed before both casual and members rent bikes mostly in weekends with higher count for Saturday.
4- The most siginificant fact is the ride duration difference between casuals and members as casuals have a significant ride duration which is always the double than that
  of the members and reaching a maximum of 199,000 hours in July only while for members the max reached also in July is almost half reaching 88,000 hours.
  
5- Both members and casuals use electrical and classic bikes in the same proportion... It is half half but some of casulas rent docked bikes around 0.03% of the sum
   of members and casulas, and 8.3% of casuals


Conclusion:
My suggestions are: a) Do more commercials showing that casuals are renting bikes almost the same as members while riding for much longer durations.
                    b) Execute membership plans that is available from May till October which is half year subscription (maube casuals are not subscribing because
                       they are renting bikes only in these months and they think that members use bikes all over the year)
                    c) Advertise discounts for loyal members and ways to reduce bikes' rental when you are a member!

